feedback for Russian nounsFeedback should have this format: “This is a A B noun with a C, like X. It D. (E.)”[E is optional.]Example: дире́ктор“This is a masculine animate noun with a hard stem, like студе́нт. It has stress on the stem in the singular and on the ending in the plural. This noun has N(A)Pl in -á/-я́.”A:masculine	“masculine”feminine	“feminine”neuter	“neuter”common gender	“common gender”B: inanimate	“inanimate”animate	“animate”C: [the numbers refer to the Zaliznjak numerical codes, some have circles after them, there isn't a code for irregular]1	hard stem	“hard stem”2	soft stem	“soft stem”3	stem in velar	“stem with к, г, or х”4	stem in husher	“stem with ж, ч, ш, or щ”5	stem in ц	“stem with ц”6	stem in jod	“stem with jod”7	stem in ий/ия/ие	“stem with ий, ия, or ие”1°	stem in анин/янин	“stem with анин or янин”3°	stem in онок/ёнок	“stem with онок or ёнок”8	stem in ь	“stem with ь”8°	stem in мя	“stem with мя”0	indeclinable stem “stem that is indeclinable”	irregularD: [the letters refer to Zaliznjak codes]a	stem	“always has stress on the stem.”	b	end	“always has stress on the ending.”b'	end stemISg	“has stress on the ending in all forms except the ISg.”	c	stemSg endingPl	“has stress on the stem in the singular and on the ending in the plural.”	d	endSg stemPl	“has stress on the ending in the singular and on the stem in the plural.”d'	endSg stemPl stemAsg	“has stress on the ending in the singular, but on the stem in the ASg and the plural.”e	stemSgN(A)Pl endElse	“has stress on the stem in the singular and N(A)Pl, but has stress on the ending in the other plural forms.” f	endElse stemNPl	“has stress on the ending in all forms except the NPl.”f'	endElse stemAsgNpl	“has stress on the ending in all forms except the ASg and NPl.”f''	endElse stemISgNPl	“has stress on the ending in all forms except the ISg and the NPl.”E: [symbols to the left are from Zaliznjak; circle1 means a 1 inside a circle, etc.]*	mobileV	“This noun has a mobile vowel.”circle1	N(A)Pl in -a/-я	“This noun has N(A)Pl in -á/-я́.”circle2	irregGPl	“This noun has an irregular GPl form.”П2	Loc2	“This noun has a second locative form.” e.g., лесР2	Gen2	“This noun has a second genitive form.” e.g., чай△	irreg	“This noun has some irregular forms.”Other special items -- I don't know how Francis has coded these... Zaliznjak has Р.мн. затрудн. for this one:	“This noun has no GPl form.”  e.g., мечта́X = Head nouns[Numbers refer to Zaliznjak codes]1	masculine inanimate hard stem	бана́н1	masculine animate hard stem	студе́нт2	masculine inanimate soft stem	рубль2	masculine animate soft stem	медве́дь3	masculine inanimate stem in velar	уро́к3	masculine animate stem in velar	учени́к4	masculine inanimate stem in husher	каранда́ш4	masculine animate stem in husher	борщ5	masculine inanimate stem in ц	огуре́ц5	masculine animate stem in ц	оте́ц6	masculine inanimate stem in jod	музе́й6	masculine animate stem in jod	геро́й7	masculine inanimate stem in ий	санато́рий7	masculine animate stem in ий	вика́рий1°	masculine animate stem in анин/янин	датча́нин3°	masculine animate stem in онок/ёнок	цыплёнок1	feminine inanimate hard stem	ко́мната1	feminine animate hard stem	ма́ма2	feminine inanimate soft stem	ба́ня2	feminine animate soft stem	герои́ня	3	feminine inanimate stem in velar	кни́га3	feminine animate stem in velar	соба́ка4	feminine inanimate stem in husher	ка́ша4	feminine animate stem in husher	касси́рша5	feminine inanimate stem in ц	у́лица5	feminine animate stem in ц	учи́тельница6	feminine inanimate stem in jod	ста́туя6	feminine animate stem in jod	фе́я7	feminine inanimate stem in ия	ле́кция7	feminine animate stem in ия	фу́рия8	feminine inanimate stem in ь	дверь8	feminine animate stem in ь	фотомоде́ль1	neuter inanimate hard stem	окно́1	neuter animate hard stem	ча́до2	neuter inanimate soft stem	мо́ре3	neuter inanimate stem in velar	бла́го4	neuter inanimate stem in husher	жили́ще4	neuter animate stem in husher	чудо́вище5	neuter inanimate stem in ц	со́лнце6	neuter inanimate stem in jod	здоро́вье7	neuter inanimate stem in ие	рожде́ние8°	neuter inanimate stem in мя	вре́мяHead nouns that need to be added to the lexicon (I have checked all of the other proposed head nouns -- they do indeed exist in the list):Russian	English	Danish	Norwegianстуде́нт	student	student	studentгеро́й	hero	helt	heltсанато́рий	sanatorium	sanatorium	sanatoriumвика́рий	vicar	sognepræst, vikar	sogneprest, vikarцыплёнок	chic	kyllingunge	kyllingungeгерои́ня	heroine	heltinde	heltinneкасси́рша	cashier	kassedame	kassererста́туя	statue	statue	statueфе́я	fairy	fe	feфу́рия	mythological fury	furie	furieча́до	child	barn	barnмо́ре	sea	sø	sjøбла́го	good	gode	godeNOTES:We still need to do something about the masculine nouns that decline like feminines (дядя, дедушка, папа). We also need a solution for the common gender nouns like сирота.Zaliznjak does not use codes to distinguish between feminine nouns with a husher before ь and those with other consonant letters. There are spelling differences in the DPl, IPl, LPl due to spelling rules. It seems best to take the default types as head nouns here.