

Fillers and positions in the clause

We have talked about dividing the CLADVs into different groups according to the position in which they can occur in a sentence. The initial idea was to have three groups; sentence initial CLADV, sentence medial CLADV (following MAINV), and sentence final CLADV. I have looked at the CLADVs in main clauses, and most of them can occur in more positions than these, including between SUBJ and MAINV, and between two elements following the finite verb. In some positions, they sound a little bit strange with a normal intonation, but they are not ungrammatical. I have looked at five possible positions in a main clause, 1)sentence initial, 2)between SUBJ and MAINV, 3)following MAINV, 4)after an element following MAINV (object or adverbial), 5) Sentence finally.

The CLADVs that can occur "everywhere": dalle, dál, dušše, dieđusge, beare, guovttis-guoktenuppelogis.

The collective numerals guovttis – guoktenuppelogis can superficially occur “everywhere”, but for example after SUBJ they are part of the subject and not a constituent of their own (example 1b). I understand that the programme does not count constituents, but words, and then these can be allowed everywhere.

1)
a. Golmmas mii bargat ovttas
b. Mii golmmas bargat ovttas
c. Mii bargat golmmas ovttas
d. Mii bargat ovttas golmmas

For other CLADVs, there are more restrictions. 
Only sentence initially: "na" 
Everywhere, except sentence initially: "maid"

“maid” can be sentence initial in a context sentence. In QA, the answers are probably context sentences, and we should allow “maid” everywhere. 

The place CLADVS (dohko, doppe) and “odne” can occur everywhere (examples 2a-2f), but they sound odd between SUBJ and MAINV in main clauses, when SUBJ occurs sentence initially (examples 2g-2h). If the subject is not the first constituent of the sentence, these CLADVs are fine between SUBJ and MAINV (examples 2i-2j). In sentences where the subject is not initial, the fillers cannot come between the subject and the first element (examples 2k-2l).
Looking at this, it seems that the restriction holds between first and second constituent of the main clause. However, if the first constituent is another word and the subject has been dropped, these CLADVs can occur between the initial element and the verb, i.e between the first and second elements of the sentence (examples 2m-2n). The generalization seems to hold between SUBJ and MAINV; they do not occur between SUBJ and MAINV in subject initial sentences. Of all these possibilities, only two are clearly ungrammatical, so it makes sense to allow these everywhere as well.
Examples:

2)
filler: dohko, odne

a. Dohko mun viegan jođánit
b. Odne mun viegan jođánit
c. Mun viegan jođánit dohko
d. Mun viegan jođánit odne
e. Mun viegan dohko jođánit
f. Mun viegan odne jođánit
g. (?)Mun dohko viegan jođánit
h. (?)Mun odne viegan jođánit
i. In mun dohko viega jođánit
j. In mun odne viega jođánit
k. *In odne mun viega jođánit
l. *In dohko mun viega jođánit
m. In  (mun) odne viega jođánit.
n. In (mun) dohko viega jođánit.

The CLADV “fal” can never occur sentence initially, and groups with “maid”. However, “fal” has more restrictions. It is a “focus element” and can occur after MAINV and after the first element of the clause, be it SUBJ or a fronted element. If the MAINV is the final element of the clause, then “fal” can occur sentence finally, but otherwise “fal” cannot occur sentence finally.

3)
a. *Fal Máret boahtá
b. Máret fal boahtá
c. Máret boahtá fal
d. *Máret boahtá ihttin fal

The CLADV “áinnas” cannot occur sentence initially if the sentence has a SUBJ. Otherwise it can occur everywhere:

4)
a. *Àinnas mun logan čállosa.
b. Mun áinnas logan čállosa.
c. Mun logan áinnas čállosa.
d. Mun logan čállosa áinnas.
e. Áinnas logan čállosa.

If we don’t want to be overly restrictive, then we can allow all CLADVs everywhere, even the ones with some restrictions. The only CLADVs that come with restrictions then are “na” which is initial only, and “fal” which is non-initial. 
