
To 
Lene Antonsen
Trond Trosterud
Heli Uibo

AKU would like to organize an Oahpa ICALL course this fall for potentially active developers in the Oahpa computer-assisted learning environment.

IDEA / COURSE TITLE
Modeling new languages after the FLAG SHIP oahpa.no/davvi.

Prerequisite: there exist an Oahpa instance for language xxx.
Purpose of the course: the participants learn how to add linguistic content to xxx_oahpa.

DURATION
The proposed time span is one week

WHO IS THE COURSE INTENDED FOR
Teachers and linguists of languages with at least some Giellatekno-HFST support.
Languages for which there are people who develop the linguistic content:
1. definitely these: 
myv - oahpa.no/erzya
mrj
yrk - oahpa.no/yrkoahpa
kpv - oahpa.no/kpvoahpa
udm

2. maybe also:
olo
izh
vep
mdf
mhr

[There will be a separate course (with Estonian/Finnish as instruction language) for developers and users of Estonian, Võro and Livonian Oahpa.
est - testing.oahpa.no/eesti
vro - testing.oahpa.no/voro
liv - testing.oahpa.no/livokel]


LANGUAGES USED
English/Finnish/Russian (Russian probably preferred by most of the participants)

INSTRUCTORS
Jack Rueter - linguistic issues, FSTs
Trond Trosterud - Giellatekno overview, infrastructure, FSTs
Heli Uibo - Oahpa setup and maintenance
All - creation of linguistic resources for xxx_oahpa

SCHEDULE
Monday: Giellatekno overview (infrastructure, projects, tools, Oahpa)
Homework by Thursday: think about the productive Morfa-C frames in your language - which cases, which verbs?
Tuesday: Presentations by the participants about their languages and existing resources (textbooks a.o. teaching materials, corpora, language technology tools)
Wednesday: hands-on 
1. Setting up user accounts, basic SVN.
2. Leksa 
Creating word lists in csv format. Checking in new files and updating the existing ones. svn ci -> Heli updates the db -> online check. 
How to choose the vocabulary for Leksa. Textbook word lists, frequency dictionaries.
Place names.
Thursday: hands-on
1. Setting up Morfa-S. Case list, possible additional menus.
2. Writing Morfa-C frames.
Friday: discussion, sum up and future 
New ideas, thoughts that have come up while implementing Oahpa for your language. 
How to proceed with the development of your Oahpa. 

REQUIRED TOOLS
What computers do we need to support?
Linux, Mac, Windows?
Connectivity
sudo rights?

PRELIMINARY READING etc. (tasks for participants)
1. Look for and take along some learning materials (textbooks, workbooks, dictionaries). Best if they (also) exist in electronic format but paper format is also ok. 
2. Think about the issues that need special pedagogical focus in your language, e.g. using some case(s).
3. Look at some Oahpa instances online (oahpa.no/davvi, testing.oahpa.no/rusoahpa, testing.oahpa.no/fkv_oahpa, testing.oahpa.no/crk_oahpa), get inspiration and think about the analogies/differences with your language. (?)

TECHNICAL PREPARATIONS
Heli - set up empty Oahpa-s for mrj, udm, (olo, izh, vep, mdf, mhr)
Heli - update the existing Oahpa-s if the source files have been updated meanwhile


Possible time slots
(a) 21.10.-27.10. no teaching at the University of Helsinki [rooms more readily available]
(b) 22.9.-27.9., 29.9.-3.10. [visiting Erzya scholars might participate, they are here from 15.9. to 14.10. Russian might be useful]

YOUR SUGGESTIONS

+++
Helsinki (or Tartu?)
22.9.-27.9.


